README.adoc, before:

//  Copyright (c) 2020 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:projectid: reactive-service-testing
:page-layout: guide-multipane
:page-duration: 20 minutes
:page-releasedate: 2020-04-16
:page-guide-category: microprofile
:page-essential: false
:page-description: Learn how to use Kafka client APIs and MicroShed Testing to test reactive Java microservices.
:guide-author: Open Liberty
:page-tags: ['MicroProfile', 'Jakarta EE', 'Microservices']
:page-related-guides: ['microprofile-reactive-messaging', 'microshed-testing', 'reactive-messaging-sse', 'microprofile-reactive-messaging-acknowledgement', 'microprofile-rest-client-async']
:page-permalink: /guides/{projectid}
:imagesdir: /img/guide/{projectid}
:page-seo-title: Testing Java microservices using MicroShed Testing (MST)
:page-seo-description: A getting started tutorial with examples on how to test asynchronous Java microservices in a MicroProfile Reactive Messaging application using MicroShed Testing (MST), as well as Kafka's producer and consumer client APIs.
:common-includes: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenLiberty/guides-common/dev
:source-highlighter: prettify
= Testing reactive Java microservices

[.hidden]
NOTE: This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view the guide in published form, view it on the https://openliberty.io/guides/{projectid}.html[Open Liberty website].

Learn how to use Kafka client APIs and MicroShed Testing to test reactive Java microservices.

== What you'll learn

You will start with Java reactive messaging services that run on Open Liberty and learn how to use Kafka client APIs and
MicroShed Testing to write tests that exercise the services inside of a Docker container.

=== What is a reactive microservice?

Reactive microservices are responsive and resilient under varying workloads because they receive, process, and send messages
asynchronously without blocking other work. For example, in a restaurant, a waitress might come to your table and take your order.
Then, while you are waiting for your food to be prepared, she serves other tables, taking their orders too. When your food
is ready, she brings your food to your table, then continues to serve the other tables too. The waitress is operating asynchronously;
if she were to operate synchronously, she would have to take your order and then wait until she had brought your food to your
table before she could serve any other tables. This is clearly not an efficient way to operate a restaurant. Similarly,
sending and receiving messages synchronously between microservices is not an efficient way to run microservices.

HTTP request calls from a REST client to another microservice can be time-consuming; the network might be slow, or the
other service might be overwhelmed with requests and can’t respond quickly. In a reactive system, a microservice sends
an HTTP request to another microservice then continues to send other calls, and to receive and process other responses.
When the microservice receives a response to the original request, it can process that request but, in the meantime, it
is not blocked from completing other work.

The application featured in this guide uses the `system` and `inventory`
services to showcase MicroProfile Reactive Messaging. To learn more about MicroProfile Reactive Messaging and how
the application works, check out the
https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-reactive-messaging.html[Creating reactive Java microservices^]
guide.

=== What is MicroShed Testing?

Sometimes tests might pass in development and testing (dev/test) environments, but fail in production because the
application is running differently in production than it is in dev/test. A mocking framework is sometimes used to
test your microservices, however, in an application involving Kafka, it is difficult to mock a live system.
Fortunately, you can minimize these issues by testing your application in the same Docker container that you’ll use
in production, avoiding a mocking framework which might not effectively imitate the exact environment you need.

From the https://microshed.org/microshed-testing/[MicroShed Testing^] website, "MicroShed Testing offers a fast
and simple way of writing and running true-to-production integration tests for Java microservice applications.
MicroShed Testing exercises your containerized application from outside the container so you are testing the exact
same image that runs in production." To learn more about MicroShed Testing, check out the
https://openliberty.io/guides/microshed-testing.html[Testing a MicroProfile or Jakarta EE application^] guide.

== Additional prerequisites

Install Docker (https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation[see the official Docker documentation^]) and start your Docker environment.
You will build and run the microservices in Docker containers. An installation of Apache Kafka is provided in another Docker container.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/gitclone.adoc[]

=== Try what you'll build

The `finish` directory in the root of this guide contains the finished application. Give it a try before you proceed.

To try out the tests, go to the `finish` directory and run the following Maven goal to install the `models`
artifact to the local Maven repository for later use by the `system` and `inventory` services:

[role='command']
```
mvn -pl models install
```

Now navigate to the `finish/system` directory and run the following Maven goal to build the `system` service and run
the integration tests on an Open Liberty server in a container:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 33.001 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ system ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  52.817 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:28:55-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

This command might take some time to run the first time because the dependencies and the Docker image for Open Liberty
must download. If you run the same command again, it will be faster.

Similarly, you can try out the `inventory` integration tests by repeating the same commands in the `finish/inventory`
directory.

== Testing using the Kafka consumer client

//File 0
system/pom.xml
[source, XML, linenums, role='code_column']
----
include::finish/system/pom.xml[]
----

//File 1
system/AppContainerConfig.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/AppContainerConfig.java[]
----

//File 2
SystemServiceIT.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemServiceIT.java[]
----

//File 3
SystemLoad.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/models/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/models/SystemLoad.java[]
----

//File 4
SystemService.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemService.java[]
----

Navigate to the `start` directory to begin.

The provided example reactive application consists of the `system` and `inventory` microservices, which produces to and
consumes messages from Kafka respectively. You will write integration tests to see how you can use the Kafka consumer
and producer client APIs to test each service. MicroShed Testing (MST) and Kafka test containers have already been included as required
test dependencies in your Maven project `system/` and `inventory/` [hotspot=dependencies file=0]`pom.xml` files.

The `start` directory contains three directories. The `system` service directory, the `inventory` service directory, and the `models`
directory which contains the model class that defines the structure of the system load data that is used in the application.
Run the following Maven goal to install the packaged `models` artifact to the local Maven repository to be later used by the
`system` and `inventory` services:

[role='command']
```
mvn -pl models install
```

With Open Liberty development mode, you can use MicroShed Testing to run tests on an already running Open Liberty server.
Navigate to the `start/system` directory.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-start.adoc[]

Now you can add your test files.

=== Configuring your containers

You will need to create a class to externalize your container configurations.

[role="code_command hotspot file=1", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `AppContainerConfig` class.#
`system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/AppContainerConfig.java`
----


The [hotspot=AppContainerConfig file=1]`AppContainerConfig` class externalizes test container set up and configuration, so you can use
the same application containers across multiple tests. The [hotspot=container hotspot=container2 file=1]`@Container` annotation denotes an
application container that will be started up and used in the tests.

There are two containers that will be used for testing the `system` service. First is the [hotspot=kafka file=1]`kafka` container
that the `system` service will be producing messages to. Second is the [hotspot=system file=1]`system` container,
which uses the same container that you built.

The [hotspot=dependsOn file=1]`dependsOn()` annotation specifies that the `system` service container should wait until the `kafka`
container is ready before starting up.

=== Testing your containers

Now you can start writing your test that will use the configured containers.


[role="code_command hotspot file=2", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `SystemServiceIT` class.#
`system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemServiceIT.java`
----


The test uses the [hotspot=KafkaConsumer hotspot=KafkaConsumer2 file=2]`KafkaConsumer` client API, and
is configured using the [hotspot=KafkaConsumerConfig file=2]`@KafkaConsumerConfig` annotation. The consumer client is configured
to consume messages from the [hotspot=systemLoadTopic file=2]`systemLoadTopic` topic from the `kafka` container.
To learn more about Kafka APIs and how to use them, check out the
https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#api[official Kafka Documentation^]

To consume messages from a stream, they will need to be deserialized from bytes. Kafka has its own default deserializer,
however, a custom deserializer has been provided for you, and is configured to the consumers's
[hotspot=valueDeserializer file=2]`valueDeserializer` and has been implemented in the
[hotspot=SystemLoadDeserializer file=3]`SystemLoad` class.

The running `system` service container will produce messages to the [hotspot=systemLoad file=4]`systemLoad` Kafka topic,
as denoted by the [hotspot=Outgoing file=4]`@Outgoing` annotation. The [hotspot=testCpuStatus file=2]`testCpuStatus()`
test method will [hotspot=poll file=2]`poll()` records from Kafka every three seconds until the timeout limit.
It will then [hotspot=assert file=2]`verify` that the record polled matched the expected record.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-test.adoc[]

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 25.674 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0

 Integration tests finished.
```

After you are finished running tests, stop the Open Liberty server by typing `q` in the shell session where you ran
the server, and then press the `enter/return` key.

You can also run the tests via a cold start by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 33.001 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ system ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  52.817 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:28:55-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

== Testing using the Kafka producer client

//File 0
InventoryServiceIT.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/inventory/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryServiceIT.java[]
----

//File 1
SystemLoad.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/models/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/models/SystemLoad.java[]
----

//File 2
InventoryResource.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/inventory/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryResource.java[]
----

The `inventory` service can be tested the same way as the `system` service, the only difference being that the `inventory`
service consumes messages, allowing tests to be written using the Kafka producer client.

=== Configuring your containers

Navigate to the `start/inventory` directory. The `AppContainerConfig` class has been provided for you, and is configured
in the same way as the `system` service.
The two containers configured for use in the `inventory` service integration test is the `Kafka` and `inventory`
containers.

=== Testing your containers

Similar to the `system` service, you can run Open Liberty in dev mode to listen for file changes by running the
following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn liberty:dev
```

Now you can create your integrated test.

[role="code_command hotspot file=0", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `InventoryServiceIT` class.#
`inventory/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryServiceIT.java`
----

The [hotspot=InventoryServiceIT file=0]`InventoryServiceIT` class utilizes the [hotspot=KafkaProducer hotspot=KafkaProducer file=0]`KafkaProducer`
client to produce messages in the test environment for the `inventory` service container to consume. The producer is
configured using the [hotspot=KafkaProducerConfig file=0]`@KafkaProducerConfig` annotation to use the custom serializer provided
in the [hotspot=SystemLoadSerializer file=1]`SystemLoad` class. The config annotation does not include a topic for the client
to produce messages to, as it has the flexibility to produce messages to any topic, and is shown producing messages to
the [hotspot=systemLoadTopic file=0]`systemLoadTopic` topic.

The [hotspot=testCpuUsage file=0]`testCpuUsage` test method will produce a message to Kafka, and then
[hotspot=assert hotspot=assert2 hotspot=assert3 file=0]`verify` that the response from the `inventory` service matches what is expected.

The [hotspot=RESTClient file=0]`@RESTClient` annotation injects a REST client proxy of the
[hotspot=InventoryResource file=2]`InventoryResource` class, allowing for easy HTTP requests to be made to the running application.
To learn more about REST clients, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-rest-client.html[Consuming RESTful services with template interfaces^]
guide.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-test.adoc[]

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 32.564 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.inventory.InventoryServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0

 Integration tests finished.
```

After you are finished running tests, stop the Open Liberty server by typing `q` in the shell session where you ran
the server, and then press the `enter/return` key.

You can also run the tests via a cold start by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 42.345 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.inventory.InventoryServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ inventory ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  48.213 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:43:34-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

== Great work! You're done!

You have just tested two reactive messaging services using MicroShed Testing.

== Related Links

Learn more about MicroProfile.

https://microprofile.io/[See the MicroProfile specs^]

https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/microprofile[View the MicroProfile API^]

Learn more about MicroShed Testing.

https://microshed.org/microshed-testing/[Visit the official MicroShed Testing website^]

include::{common-includes}/attribution.adoc[subs="attributes"]

Commit message:

Added explanation for why the system service errors

README.adoc, after:

//  Copyright (c) 2020 IBM Corporation and others.
// Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives
// 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)
//   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
//
// Contributors:
//     IBM Corporation
//
:projectid: reactive-service-testing
:page-layout: guide-multipane
:page-duration: 30 minutes
:page-releasedate: 2020-04-16
:page-guide-category: microprofile
:page-essential: false
:page-description: Learn how to use Kafka client APIs and MicroShed Testing to test reactive Java microservices.
:guide-author: Open Liberty
:page-tags: ['MicroProfile', 'Jakarta EE', 'Microservices']
:page-related-guides: ['microprofile-reactive-messaging', 'microshed-testing', 'reactive-messaging-sse', 'microprofile-reactive-messaging-acknowledgement', 'microprofile-rest-client-async']
:page-permalink: /guides/{projectid}
:imagesdir: /img/guide/{projectid}
:page-seo-title: Testing Java microservices using MicroShed Testing (MST)
:page-seo-description: A getting started tutorial with examples on how to test asynchronous Java microservices in a MicroProfile Reactive Messaging application using MicroShed Testing (MST), as well as Kafka's producer and consumer client APIs.
:common-includes: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenLiberty/guides-common/dev
:source-highlighter: prettify
= Testing reactive Java microservices

[.hidden]
NOTE: This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view the guide in published form, view it on the https://openliberty.io/guides/{projectid}.html[Open Liberty website].

Learn how to use Kafka client APIs and MicroShed Testing to test reactive Java microservices.

== What you'll learn

You will start with Java reactive messaging services that run on Open Liberty and learn how to use Kafka client APIs and
MicroShed Testing to write tests that exercise the services inside of a Docker container.

=== What is a reactive microservice?

Reactive microservices are responsive and resilient under varying workloads because they receive, process, and send messages
asynchronously without blocking other work. For example, in a restaurant, a waitress might come to your table and take your order.
Then, while you are waiting for your food to be prepared, she serves other tables, taking their orders too. When your food
is ready, she brings your food to your table, then continues to serve the other tables too. The waitress is operating asynchronously;
if she were to operate synchronously, she would have to take your order and then wait until she had brought your food to your
table before she could serve any other tables. This is clearly not an efficient way to operate a restaurant. Similarly,
sending and receiving messages synchronously between microservices is not an efficient way to run microservices.

HTTP request calls from a REST client to another microservice can be time-consuming; the network might be slow, or the
other service might be overwhelmed with requests and can’t respond quickly. In a reactive system, a microservice sends
an HTTP request to another microservice then continues to send other calls, and to receive and process other responses.
When the microservice receives a response to the original request, it can process that request but, in the meantime, it
is not blocked from completing other work.

The application featured in this guide uses the `system` and `inventory`
services to showcase MicroProfile Reactive Messaging. To learn more about MicroProfile Reactive Messaging and how
the application works, check out the
https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-reactive-messaging.html[Creating reactive Java microservices^]
guide.

=== What is MicroShed Testing?

Sometimes tests might pass in development and testing (dev/test) environments, but fail in production because the
application is running differently in production than it is in dev/test. A mocking framework is sometimes used to
test your microservices, however, in an application involving Kafka, it is difficult to mock a live system.
Fortunately, you can minimize these issues by testing your application in the same Docker container that you’ll use
in production, avoiding a mocking framework which might not effectively imitate the exact environment you need.

From the https://microshed.org/microshed-testing/[MicroShed Testing^] website, "MicroShed Testing offers a fast
and simple way of writing and running true-to-production integration tests for Java microservice applications.
MicroShed Testing exercises your containerized application from outside the container so you are testing the exact
same image that runs in production." To learn more about MicroShed Testing, check out the
https://openliberty.io/guides/microshed-testing.html[Testing a MicroProfile or Jakarta EE application^] guide.

== Additional prerequisites

Install Docker (https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation[see the official Docker documentation^]) and start your Docker environment.
You will build and run the microservices in Docker containers. An installation of Apache Kafka is provided in another Docker container.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/gitclone.adoc[]

=== Try what you'll build

The `finish` directory in the root of this guide contains the finished application. Give it a try before you proceed.

To try out the tests, go to the `finish` directory and run the following Maven goal to install the `models`
artifact to the local Maven repository for later use by the `system` and `inventory` services:

[role='command']
```
mvn -pl models install
```

Now navigate to the `finish/system` directory and run the following Maven goal to build the `system` service and run
the integration tests on an Open Liberty server in a container:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 33.001 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ system ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  52.817 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:28:55-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

This command might take some time to run the first time because the dependencies and the Docker image for Open Liberty
must download. If you run the same command again, it will be faster.

Similarly, you can try out the `inventory` integration tests by repeating the same commands in the `finish/inventory`
directory.

== Testing using the Kafka consumer client

//File 0
system/pom.xml
[source, XML, linenums, role='code_column']
----
include::finish/system/pom.xml[]
----

//File 1
system/AppContainerConfig.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/AppContainerConfig.java[]
----

//File 2
SystemServiceIT.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemServiceIT.java[]
----

//File 3
SystemLoad.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/models/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/models/SystemLoad.java[]
----

//File 4
SystemService.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/system/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemService.java[]
----

Navigate to the `start` directory to begin.

The provided example reactive application consists of the `system` and `inventory` microservices, which produces to and
consumes messages from Kafka respectively. You will write integration tests to see how you can use the Kafka consumer
and producer client APIs to test each service. MicroShed Testing (MST) and Kafka test containers have already been included as required
test dependencies in your Maven project `system/` and `inventory/` [hotspot=dependencies file=0]`pom.xml` files.

The `start` directory contains three directories. The `system` service directory, the `inventory` service directory, and the `models`
directory which contains the model class that defines the structure of the system load data that is used in the application.
Run the following Maven goal to install the packaged `models` artifact to the local Maven repository to be later used by the
`system` and `inventory` services:

[role='command']
```
mvn -pl models install
```

With Open Liberty development mode, you can use MicroShed Testing to run tests on an already running Open Liberty server.
Navigate to the `start/system` directory.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-start.adoc[]

Now you can add your test files.

Note that this guide covers the development of MST for reactive services, and the running `system` service will search
for a Kafka topic to push its messages to, however, since there is no current running Kafka services, the `system` service
will expectedly throw errors. Writing and running the tests later on in the guide will spin up a Kafka container for
your `system` service to communicate with, effectively testing the functionality of the `system` service.

=== Configuring your containers

You will need to create a class to externalize your container configurations.

[role="code_command hotspot file=1", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `AppContainerConfig` class.#
`system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/AppContainerConfig.java`
----


The [hotspot=AppContainerConfig file=1]`AppContainerConfig` class externalizes test container set up and configuration, so you can use
the same application containers across multiple tests. The [hotspot=container hotspot=container2 file=1]`@Container` annotation denotes an
application container that will be started up and used in the tests.

There are two containers that will be used for testing the `system` service. First is the [hotspot=kafka file=1]`kafka` container
that the `system` service will be producing messages to. Second is the [hotspot=system file=1]`system` container,
which uses the same container that you built.

The [hotspot=dependsOn file=1]`dependsOn()` annotation specifies that the `system` service container should wait until the `kafka`
container is ready before starting up.

=== Testing your containers

Now you can start writing your test that will use the configured containers.


[role="code_command hotspot file=2", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `SystemServiceIT` class.#
`system/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/system/SystemServiceIT.java`
----


The test uses the [hotspot=KafkaConsumer hotspot=KafkaConsumer2 file=2]`KafkaConsumer` client API, and
is configured using the [hotspot=KafkaConsumerConfig file=2]`@KafkaConsumerConfig` annotation. The consumer client is configured
to consume messages from the [hotspot=systemLoadTopic file=2]`systemLoadTopic` topic from the `kafka` container.
To learn more about Kafka APIs and how to use them, check out the
https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#api[official Kafka Documentation^]

To consume messages from a stream, they will need to be deserialized from bytes. Kafka has its own default deserializer,
however, a custom deserializer has been provided for you, and is configured to the consumers's
[hotspot=valueDeserializer file=2]`valueDeserializer` and has been implemented in the
[hotspot=SystemLoadDeserializer file=3]`SystemLoad` class.

The running `system` service container will produce messages to the [hotspot=systemLoad file=4]`systemLoad` Kafka topic,
as denoted by the [hotspot=Outgoing file=4]`@Outgoing` annotation. The [hotspot=testCpuStatus file=2]`testCpuStatus()`
test method will [hotspot=poll file=2]`poll()` records from Kafka every three seconds until the timeout limit.
It will then [hotspot=assert file=2]`verify` that the record polled matched the expected record.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-test.adoc[]

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 25.674 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0

 Integration tests finished.
```

After you are finished running tests, stop the Open Liberty server by typing `q` in the shell session where you ran
the server, and then press the `enter/return` key.

You can also run the tests via a cold start by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 33.001 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.system.SystemServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ system ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  52.817 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:28:55-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

== Testing using the Kafka producer client

//File 0
InventoryServiceIT.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/inventory/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryServiceIT.java[]
----

//File 1
SystemLoad.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/models/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/models/SystemLoad.java[]
----

//File 2
InventoryResource.java
[source, Java, linenums, role='code_column hide_tags=copyright']
----
include::finish/inventory/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryResource.java[]
----

The `inventory` service can be tested the same way as the `system` service, the only difference being that the `inventory`
service consumes messages, allowing tests to be written using the Kafka producer client.

=== Configuring your containers

Navigate to the `start/inventory` directory. The `AppContainerConfig` class has been provided for you, and is configured
in the same way as the `system` service.
The two containers configured for use in the `inventory` service integration test is the `Kafka` and `inventory`
containers.

=== Testing your containers

Similar to the `system` service, you can run Open Liberty in dev mode to listen for file changes by running the
following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn liberty:dev
```

Now you can create your integrated test.

[role="code_command hotspot file=0", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `InventoryServiceIT` class.#
`inventory/src/test/java/it/io/openliberty/guides/inventory/InventoryServiceIT.java`
----

The [hotspot=InventoryServiceIT file=0]`InventoryServiceIT` class utilizes the [hotspot=KafkaProducer hotspot=KafkaProducer file=0]`KafkaProducer`
client to produce messages in the test environment for the `inventory` service container to consume. The producer is
configured using the [hotspot=KafkaProducerConfig file=0]`@KafkaProducerConfig` annotation to use the custom serializer provided
in the [hotspot=SystemLoadSerializer file=1]`SystemLoad` class. The config annotation does not include a topic for the client
to produce messages to, as it has the flexibility to produce messages to any topic, and is shown producing messages to
the [hotspot=systemLoadTopic file=0]`systemLoadTopic` topic.

The [hotspot=testCpuUsage file=0]`testCpuUsage` test method will produce a message to Kafka, and then
[hotspot=assert hotspot=assert2 hotspot=assert3 file=0]`verify` that the response from the `inventory` service matches what is expected.

The [hotspot=RESTClient file=0]`@RESTClient` annotation injects a REST client proxy of the
[hotspot=InventoryResource file=2]`InventoryResource` class, allowing for easy HTTP requests to be made to the running application.
To learn more about REST clients, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-rest-client.html[Consuming RESTful services with template interfaces^]
guide.

[role='command']
include::{common-includes}/devmode-test.adoc[]

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 32.564 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.inventory.InventoryServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0

 Integration tests finished.
```

After you are finished running tests, stop the Open Liberty server by typing `q` in the shell session where you ran
the server, and then press the `enter/return` key.

You can also run the tests via a cold start by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
mvn verify
```

You will see the following output:

[role='no_copy']
```
 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 42.345 s - in it.io.openliberty.guides.inventory.InventoryServiceIT

 Results:

 Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0


 --- maven-failsafe-plugin:2.22.2:verify (verify) @ inventory ---
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD SUCCESS
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total time:  48.213 s
 Finished at: 2020-03-13T16:43:34-04:00
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

== Great work! You're done!

You have just tested two reactive messaging services using MicroShed Testing.

== Related Links

Learn more about MicroProfile.

https://microprofile.io/[See the MicroProfile specs^]

https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/microprofile[View the MicroProfile API^]

Learn more about MicroShed Testing.

https://microshed.org/microshed-testing/[Visit the official MicroShed Testing website^]

include::{common-includes}/attribution.adoc[subs="attributes"]
